Our initial plan was to do something topical with COVID-19 - specifically its effect on flights throughout the world. Unfortunately, despite initial success in landing some fairly recent data,
we couldn't find the historical information that we needed without paying out for it. So, after kicking around a lot of different ideas, we settled on working with data from Stack Overflow's 
2019 Developer Survey.

The survey was fairly extensive, so it gave us a lot of data to work with. We chose to focus on the following aspects for the purposes of this project: 
Country, job title, programming language, adjusted salary, and job satisfaction. There were a lot of other metrics that we could have included, 
but we felt that this would provide something that was both interesting and more immediately useful. However, it wouldn't take much more work to include other data if it was deemed necessary. 

Fortunately, the data were fairly clean and didn't require much wrangling. The survey information was very uniform and was fairly easy to parse out overall. 
Some data were purged because they weren't useful for our work - primarily the developer records that were left blank or NaN.

We used MongoDB for our database, but it could have worked just as well with SQL. As for Javascript libraries, we chose to use dc.js (Dimensional Charts Library)
 for the purposes of charting. We designed this largely as an app for developers of all types to get insights on the market with regards to salaries, job satisfaction,
 and languages that they should focus on. With the app, we're able to select information based on country and other criteria to see how those factors interact.

We settled on a dashboard-style page with multiple charts, allowing for users to select various pieces of information to get specific visualizations. 
We chose to use a pie chart to break down developer types among the respondents. A bar chart seemed like the most intuitive way to display both the top 10 languages used 
and the salary information. Our final feature is a box plot to display job satisfaction.

With these charts, we're able to drill down into very specific situations. For instance, we can look at the United States and, from there, choose Data Scientist or 
Machine Learning Specialist. We can quickly see that the top three programming languages used for that field are: Python, SQL, and R. Salaries are predominantly high,
 at $90k and above, and job satisfaction is good, overall.

There are limitations, of course. Not all respondents included all of the information - so, the data are skewed towards those who actually answered 
questions regarding programming languages, salary, or job satisfaction. The charts function only on the data that are available: e.g. of the 1924 respondents
 that were Data Scientists in the United States, only 82 responded with salary information, so only those 82 records are displayed in the salary chart. <- fix this to be more accurate, it's due to how the sorting works


Unfortunately, with those limitations, we're not able to make reasonable comparisons between Data Scientists in other countries. 

The task division was challenging, considering the workflow. All of us were very involved with determining the project and its scope,
 which was more challenging than it initially seemed. We had to pare it down from a large number of potential charts into something that would be more immediately useful,
 which did help to make it a lot more manageable - but not as flexible as we originally wanted. The project did provide a good foundation for further experiments in charting, 
however, and it could easily be expanded to allow for additional exploration into the given dataset.

We also did a lot of collective research into various Javascript libraries and other resources to make this project come to fruition. Aydin was the primary code-force, 
with Seung handling the Heroku deployment and assisting with bug-fixing, and Robert and Jennifer working on the presentation as well as assisting with code and troubleshooting.